# Expand

1. Javascript's asynchronous nature can allow for nested asynchronous function calls which can lead to errors and race conditions, where the outputs of separate calls are mutually dependent on each other.  Loose typing can lead to ambiguity due to automatic type conversions and lack of clarity of which variables are behaving as which types of data.  Different web platforms may support different features, leading to significant complexity in a diverse ecosystem of many possible behaviors.
2. Loose typing allows for automatic conversions which prevents critical errors and crashes.  Javascript was designed to be resilient and allow for potentially buggy behavior, while still allowing the webpage to continue functioning.  Asynchronous features allow for a faster user experience, where there is not one single threaded linear environment that is running code, rather multiple different functions can be called and return data in any particular order.  This avoids bottlenecks and allows for at least some data and functionality performing when there is a bottleneck somewhere in the code.  
3. A compiled language are built and converted directly into machine code for execution.  They tend to be faster and more efficient, while performing compiler checks for valid code syntax.  An interpreted language runs the program line by line and executes each command, which is slower and less efficient, but does not need to be compiled beforehand.  It also allows for changes to the code without needing to build and recompile the program.  Javascript is an interpreted language, so it can execute client-side code quickly without needing to compile.  However because client-side code is visible, it can be a security risk and be used for malicious purposes.  Browsers also interpret javascript in different ways, leading to varying features and behaviors from the same code.
4. Mastering vanilla javascript is necessary to build a solid foundation of what is possible in JS without adding needless complexity.  Not learning a framework can mean you are continually re-inventing the wheel when working on a project, and often doing it at a sub-par quality than a more established library.  
5. Javascript will be crucial in providing functionality and user interaction within the web app.  Diagramming is also very helpful in planning out the logic of what your program does, how different conditions may emerge, and building out specific screens and behaviors for each case.  